CON-188: Update "Running Node from Binaries" (#1096)
maticnetwork/matic-docs: docs/develop/network-details/full-node-binaries.md

  ]
}>

<TabItem value="mainnet">

This section guides you through starting and running a full node on a binary. For the system requirements, see here [Minimum Technical Requirements](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/network-details/technical-requirements).

:::note

Steps in this guide involve waiting for the Heimdall and Bor services to fully sync. This process takes several days to complete.

Alternatively, you can use a maintained snapshot, which will reduce the sync time to a few hours. For detailed instructions, see [<ins>Snapshot Instructions for Heimdall and Bor</ins>](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/snapshot-instructions-for-heimdall-and-bor/9233).

For snapshot download links, see [<ins>Polygon Chains Snapshots</ins>](https://snapshots.matic.today/).

:::

## **Prerequisites**

- Minimum hardware requirements: 4-8+ core CPU , 16-32GB RAM, 2TB+ SSD free storage space
- Build-essential packages
- Golang version 1.18+

## **Overview**

- Prepare the Machine

> - Install Heimdall and Bor binaries on the Full Node Machine

Author: Shouldn't we keep the Full Node in caps?

- Set up Heimdall and Bor services on the Full Node Machine
- Configure the Full Node Machine
- Start the Full Node Machine
- Check Node health with the community

:::note
You have to follow the exact outlined sequence of actions, otherwise you will run into issues.
:::

### **Install `build-essential`**

This is **required** for your full node. In order to install, run the below command:

```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

### **Install GO**

This is also **required** for running your full node. Installing **v1.18 or above** is recommended.

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/maticnetwork/node-ansible/master/go-install.sh
bash go-install.sh
sudo ln -nfs ~/.go/bin/go /usr/bin/go
```

## **Install Binaries**

### **Heimdall**

This is **required** to setup your full node.

> Install the latest version of Heimdall and services. Make sure you checkout the correct [released version](https://github.com/maticnetwork/heimdall/releases) on Git. Note that the latest version, [Heimdall v.0.2.11](https://github.com/maticnetwork/heimdall/releases/tag/v0.2.11), contains enhancements such as:

Author: Yeah, I got the same notion but there is a detailed description for enhancements. So I believe it fits well in the paragraph.

  ]
}>

<TabItem value="mainnet">

> This section guides you through starting and running a full node on a binary. For the system requirements, see the [Minimum Technical Requirements](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/network-details/technical-requirements) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section guides you through starting and running a full node on a binary. For the system requirements, see the [Minimum Technical Requirements](docs/develop/network-details/technical-requirements) guide.
```

bash setup.sh
```

## **Configure Service Files**

Download **service.sh** file.

```bash
cd ~/node
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/maticnetwork/launch/master/<network-name>/service.sh

# To setup sentry node for mainnet (mainnet-v1)
# wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/maticnetwork/launch/master/mainnet-v1/service.sh
```

Generate the **metadata** file:

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /etc/matic
sudo chmod -R 777 /etc/matic/
touch /etc/matic/metadata
```

Generate services files and copy them into system directory:

```bash
cd ~/node
bash service.sh
sudo cp *.service /etc/systemd/system/
```

## **Setup Config Files**

- Log in to the remote machine / VM

> - You will need to add a few details in the `config.toml` file. To open the `config.toml` file, run the following command `vi ~/.heimdalld/config/config.toml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You will need to add a few details in the `config.toml` file. To open and edit the `config.toml` file, run the following command: `vi ~/.heimdalld/config/config.toml`.
```

:::note

Steps in this guide involve waiting for the Heimdall and Bor services to fully sync. This process takes several days to complete.

Alternatively, you can use a maintained snapshot, which will reduce the sync time to a few hours. For detailed instructions, see [<ins>Snapshot Instructions for Heimdall and Bor</ins>](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/snapshot-instructions-for-heimdall-and-bor/9233).

For snapshot download links, see [<ins>Polygon Chains Snapshots</ins>](https://snapshots.matic.today/).

:::

## **Prerequisites**

- Minimum hardware requirements: 4-8+ core CPU , 16-32GB RAM, 2TB+ SSD free storage space
- Build-essential packages
- Golang version 1.18+

<!-- ### To install

```bash wget https://gist.githubusercontent.com/ssandeep/a6c7197811c83c71e5fead841bab396c/raw/go-install.sh
```

```bash
go-install.sh
```

```bash
sudo ln -nfs ~/.go/bin/go /usr/bin/go
``` -->

<!-- RabbitMQ installed on both the Full Node machines. See Downloading and Installing RabbitMQ. -->

## **Overview**

- Prepare the Machine

> - Install Heimdall and Bor binaries on the Full Node Machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Install Heimdall and Bor binaries on the full node machine
```

> - Set up Heimdall and Bor services on the Full Node Machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set up Heimdall and Bor services on the full node machine
```

- Configure the Full Node Machine

> - Start the Full Node Machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Start the full node machine
```

> - Check Node health with the community

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check node health with the community
```

:::note
You have to follow the exact outlined sequence of actions, otherwise you will run into issues.
:::

### **Install `build-essential`**

> This is **required** for your full node. In order to install, run the below command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is **required** for your full node. In order to install, run the following command:
```

```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

> ### **Install GO**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### **Install Go**
```

> This is also **required** for running your full node. Installing **v1.18 or above** is recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is also **required** for running your full node. Installing Go **v1.18 or above** is recommended.
```

> Note: Go version 1.18 is recommended

### **Install RabbitMQ**

> RabbitMQ is a message-queueing software also known as a message broker or queue manager. Simply said, it is a software where queues are defined to which applications connect, in order to transfer a message or messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RabbitMQ is a message-queueing software (also known as a message broker or queue manager), where queues are defined for applications to transfer messages.
```

> A helper service called `bridge` which is embedded into Heimdall codebase requires `rabbit-mq` to queue transactions to multiple networks. Installing it should be pretty straightforward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A helper service called `bridge` is embedded into the Heimdall codebase, which requires `rabbit-mq` to queue transactions to multiple networks. Installing it should be pretty straightforward.
```

**Checkout the download instructions here: [https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html](https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html)**

To start a RabbitMQ node, run:

```bash
rabbitmq-server
```

## **Install Binaries**

### **Heimdall**

This is **required** to setup your full node.

> Install the latest version of Heimdall. Make sure you git checkout the correct [release version](https://github.com/maticnetwork/heimdall/releases).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the latest version of Heimdall. Make sure you git checkout to the correct [release version](https://github.com/maticnetwork/heimdall/releases).
```

```bash
cd ~/
git clone https://github.com/maticnetwork/heimdall
cd heimdall

# Checkout to a proper version

> # For eg: git checkout v0.2.1-mumbai

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# For e.g: git checkout v0.2.1-mumbai
```

heimdalld version --long
```

### **Bor**

This is **required** to setup your full node.

> Install the latest version of Bor. Make sure you git checkout the correct [released version](https://github.com/maticnetwork/bor/releases) via Git.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the latest version of Bor. Make sure you git checkout to the correct [released version](https://github.com/maticnetwork/bor/releases).
```

```bash
cd ~/
git clone https://github.com/maticnetwork/bor
cd bor

# Checkout to a proper version
# For eg: git checkout v0.2.16

git checkout <TAG OR BRANCH>
make bor-all
sudo ln -nfs ~/bor/build/bin/bor /usr/bin/bor
sudo ln -nfs ~/bor/build/bin/bootnode /usr/bin/bootnode
```

> This will install the `bor` binary and `bootnode` binary. Verify that everything is OK:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will install the `bor` and `bootnode` binaries. Verify the installation by checking the Bor version on your machine:
```

```bash
bor version
```

## **Setup Node Files**

### **Fetch launch repo**

```bash
cd ~/
git clone https://github.com/maticnetwork/launch
```

### **Setup launch directory**

> To set up the network directory, network name and type of node are required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up the network directory, the network name and type of node are required.
```

sudo cp *.service /etc/systemd/system/
```

## **Setup Config Files**

- Configure the following flags in `~/.heimdalld/config/config.toml`:
  ```jsx
  moniker=<enter unique identifier>

  seeds="4cd60c1d76e44b05f7dfd8bab3f447b119e87042@54.147.31.250:26656,b18bbe1f3d8576f4b73d9b18976e71c65e839149@34.226.134.117:26656"
  ```
- Configure the following in `~/.heimdalld/config/heimdall-config.toml`:

    ```jsx
    eth_rpc_url=<insert Infura or any full node RPC URL to Goerli>
    ```

- Add the following flag in `~/node/bor/start.sh` to the `bor` start parameters:

```bash
--bootnodes "enode://320553cda00dfc003f499a3ce9598029f364fbb3ed1222fdc20a94d97dcc4d8ba0cd0bfa996579dcc6d17a534741fb0a5da303a90579431259150de66b597251@54.147.31.250:30303"
```

## **Start Services**

Run the full Heimdall node with the following commands:

```bash
sudo service heimdalld start
sudo service heimdalld-rest-server start
```

To check if Heimdall is synced

1. On the remote machine/VM, run `curl localhost:26657/status`
2. In the output, `catching_up` value should be `false`

Once Heimdall is synced, start Bor:

```bash
sudo service bor start
```

## **Logs**

> Logs are managed by `journalctl` linux tool. Here is a link for advanced usage: [How To Use Journalctl to View and Manipulate Systemd Logs](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-journalctl-to-view-and-manipulate-systemd-logs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Logs can be managed by the `journalctl` linux tool. Here is a tutorial for advanced usage: [How To Use Journalctl to View and Manipulate Systemd Logs](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-journalctl-to-view-and-manipulate-systemd-logs).
```
